00:00
Penny Smeltzer: This is Penny Smeltzer from Austin, Texas. This video shows you how to interpret or describe a probability distribution.

00:08
Smeltzer: What will we learn? How can we describe a probability distribution? What conclusions can be made from a probability distribution?

00:18
Smeltzer: Let's look at an example. Prairie dogs are a keystone species. That means they are disproportionately important to their ecosystem. Many other species of plants and animals would suffer without them.

00:34
Smeltzer: Prairie dogs only mate once a year. The number of pups in a randomly selected litter varies and can be modeled using a probability distribution.

00:45
Smeltzer: Here's a probability distribution for the number of pups in a randomly selected prairie dog litter. Generally, a prairie dog will have one to seven pups in their litter, with one, two, or three being the most common, and often—but not too often—much higher.

01:08
Smeltzer: To describe a probability distribution, we must talk about shape, center, and spread, just like you would with any distribution.

01:19
Smeltzer: The shape of the distribution can be seen easier using a histogram rather than just looking at the probability distribution. Here's a histogram. When I look at the histogram with probability being on the vertical axis and the number of pups in the litter being on the horizontal axis, I can see that the distribution is skewed to the right.

01:46
Smeltzer: For the center of the distribution, I could use the table or a graph, and I would say that the median looks like it's about two. Although we will primarily in the future use the mean for our work for center rather than the median.

02:08
Smeltzer: It is common practice to use the standard deviation of a measure of variability. But for now, the range is six pups.

02:19
Smeltzer: Now that we have that information, we can use our probability distribution to answer a question. Should a zoologist be surprised if a randomly selected female prairie dog produced a litter with six or seven pups?

02:37
Smeltzer: Yes. The probability of a litter having six or seven pups is only 0.04, which is relatively unlikely. This event would be big news in the prairie dog world.

02:50
Smeltzer: Let's practice. Thermostat settings. Proper disposal and reduction of refrigerant chemicals used to cool our homes in the heat of summer are a high priority in reducing CO2 and CO2 equivalents into the atmosphere. Toward that end, the City of Austin recommends setting thermostats to 78 degrees for air conditioning.

03:13
Smeltzer: Let's let our random variable X be the number of degrees a thermostat is set below the recommended 78 degrees. Describe the distribution. Take a moment, pause the video, and figure out what you would say about shape, center, and spread.

03:35
Smeltzer: Looking at the histogram, we can see that the shape is skewed left. The median temperature setting is about 74 degrees, and the thermostat settings have a range of 6 degrees.

03:49
Smeltzer: Would you recommend an advertising campaign to encourage citizens to set their thermostats to a higher temperature? Justify your answer using the probability distribution. Again, pause your video, think about your answer, and then hit play.

04:10
Smeltzer: Yes. The majority of citizens have their thermostats set at least 4 degrees below the recommended 78 degrees. This can be supported by the median of 4 being clearly in the 74-degree setting. Also, the probability that a randomly selected household has their thermostat set at 74 degrees or lower is 0.71. That's a lot of people not setting their thermostat at the recommended setting.

04:44
Smeltzer: What should we take away from this video? A complete description of a probability distribution requires shape, center, and spread. And conclusions may be drawn about the population of interest using a probability distribution.

05:02
Smeltzer: Thank you.