00:00
Hey, this is Joshua Soyer on behalf of College Board, and in this video, we're looking at Topic 4.6: Independent Events and Unions of Events. And this is video 2, and we're going to focus specifically on how to calculate probabilities for the union of two events.

00:15
So again, we're going to learn how to calculate the probability for the union of two events.

00:21
The union of events: The probability that event A or event B (or both together) will occur is the probability of the union of A and B, denoted P(A U B) [P A union B].

00:35
The addition rule states that the probability that event A or event B or both will occur is equal to the probability that event A will occur, plus the probability that event B will occur, and then we subtract the probability that both events will occur. And this is denoted with this formula here. I would say to pause and write this down if you don't have it. So, the probability of A or B equals the probability of A plus the probability of B subtract the probability of A and B.

01:05
All right, we talked before about Venn diagrams and how they can represent probabilities in a visual form, and they often show, you know, two events with some sort of overlap or what have you. Now, we talked about the intersection before, and that being the part that's in between or that's common to both events in this case. But when we talk about the union, as long as something is in one of the ovals in this case, it's a part of either A or B.

01:33
All right, so let's go back to our example from the number cubes. We rolled a number cube with sides 1 through 6, and we're going to define event A as rolling an odd number, and the possible outcomes for that was 1, 3, or 5. And for B being a prime number, the possible outcomes for that event were 2, 3, or 5.

01:52
And we want to find—calculate—the probability of A or B. All right? And so, we're going to use this addition rule. We're going to count the number of ways that A can happen, the number of ways B can happen, and then subtract how many ways they have in common. So, we're going to see this at play here. So, we see that there's three ways to get event A—three outcomes for event A. Three outcomes for event B. However, there are two outcomes that are common, and so if we were to simply add these up, then those two events will be counted twice.

02:21
And so, our formula ends up being probability of A or B is 3 over 6 plus another 3 over 6 subtract the 2 over 6 that they have in common, leaving us with 4 over 6, which is two-thirds, which is approximately 0.667.

02:36
Let's look at another example here. We have two events, E and F. The probability of E is 0.4. The probability of F is 0.6. And the conditional probability of E given F is 0.25. And let's find the probability that either event E or event F occurs. Which means we want to use, again, our "or" formula—the formula for the union. Probability of E or F equivalent to the probability of E plus the probability of F and subtract the intersection.

03:06
To calculate our intersection, we have to multiply the probability of F by the conditional probability of E given that F is also true—or that F has also occurred. All right? And we have those numbers: the probability of F and the probability of E given F. So we can multiply that together and get 0.15 for the intersection of E and F.

03:30
Once we get that, we can go back and plug it into our formula. So, the probability of E or F is 0.40 (which was the probability of E) plus the 0.60 (probability of F) and then we can subtract the probability of E given F [sic - speaker points to intersection formula], which was 0.15. That gives us a total of 0.85.

03:48
All right, so let's look at a real-world example. All right, we're going back to our super status. All right, we asked students what superpower they wanted to have and what status they would want to describe them, and we have these responses here in this table. So let's look at a couple of examples real quick.

04:03
All right. What is the probability of selecting a student who chose to be happy or who wants super strength?

04:12
All right, so event A is that the student is happy, and event B is that the student wanted to have super strength. Now remember, for the union, as long as a respondent is in either this row or this column, then we're going to count that total number of outcomes and then divide that by the total number of respondents, which in this case is 433.

04:32
So, when we count the number of people who chose to be happy, we have that 265. When we count the number of people who chose super strength, we have 29. However, we have to be careful from this 15, because if we look at this row and this column, this 15 shows up twice. So that's why we have to subtract at the end. Plugging those numbers in, we get 279 over 433, which is approximately... um... 0.644.

04:59
All right, let's look at one more example. What is the probability of selecting a student who chose to freeze time or wants super strength? So, in this case, we're looking at the events "freeze time" and the events "super strength." And as long as a student falls into either of these categories, then we're in good shape.

05:18
Now, one thing you may notice is that this problem is different from the last problem because there is no intersection. All right? A and B are mutually exclusive in this case because they don't overlap each other anywhere. So, the probability of A and B equals zero. So then for the case of mutually exclusive events, our formula is simply the probability of A or B is equal to the probability of A plus the probability of B. And in this case, we have 115 over 433 plus the 29 over 433, leaving us with 144 over 433, which is approximately 0.333.

05:53
So, what should we take away from today's lesson?

05:57
The probability of the union of events can be found by the formula P(A or B) is equal to the probability of A plus the probability of B minus the probability of the intersection A and B.

06:08
I hope this video was helpful. Thanks for watching and have a great day.