Here is the transcript for the video, including timestamps.

00:00 - 00:26
Hello everybody, and in this video, we're looking at Topic 4.3, Introduction to Probability, and we're going to be introducing probability rules for events as well as their complements. So, what will we learn? How can we calculate the probability of events involving equally likely outcomes? And how can we interpret the probability of an event?

00:26 - 01:21
All right. So let's start off by talking about sample spaces. Sample spaces. For a random process, the sample space is the collection of all possible non-overlapping outcomes. The letter S is often used to represent the sample space. So for an example, if we were to flip a single coin, what are all the possible outcomes? We're going to call that the sample space. So in this case, our sample space would be either heads or tails. All right. What if we were to roll a die or a single six-sided number cube? Our sample space would be the numbers 1 through 6: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6.

01:21 - 02:16
Suppose we were to flip two coins and record the sequence of heads or tails. Then we would have four different sequences. We could have a heads followed by a heads, a heads followed by a tails, tails followed by heads, and tails followed by tails. Suppose our random process was to randomly select a vowel from the English alphabet. Then our sample space would be either A, E, I, O, or U. What if we were to roll two dice? We know that we get outcomes from 2 through 12. However, if we were to denote what's on the top faces of those dice, we actually have 36 possible outcomes, starting with (1,1), (1,2), (1,3), (1,4), (1,5), (1,6). And then we would continue on (2,1), (2,2), (2,3), and all the way on until we get from (6,1), (6,2), (6,3), (6,4), (6,5), and (6,6). And that would be 36 possible outcomes. All right. And one thing to keep in mind is that each die has six different possible outcomes. So when both dice were rolled together, that would be 6 times 6 to give us those 36 possible outcomes.

02:16 - 03:18
All right. So the probability for equally likely outcomes. An event is a collection of outcomes for the random process, as was stated before. Events are usually denoted with a single capital letter like A, B, etc. And then the probability of an event is found by taking this fraction of the total number of outcomes in event A and dividing that by the total number of outcomes in the sample space. A probability should always be a number between 0 and 1, inclusive. And so a probability of 0 means that that particular event is impossible. That would be because the number of events in, the number of outcomes in event A would be 0. So 0 divided by whatever is 0. All right. And a probability of 1 means it's a certainty. It means it's always going to happen. And in that case, the number of outcomes in event A is identical to the number of outcomes in your sample space. So you get number divided by itself, which equals to 1. All right.

03:18 - 04:20
So let's look at an example. Listen up! An owner of a local record store is interested in what types of music people are buying. He has kept record of the genre of vinyl albums sold over the past year. The following number of albums were sold according to genre. So if you need, please pause your video right here so you can jot these numbers down because we will be using them in the rest of this video. So in this case, the random process is that we are randomly selecting an album sold in the past year. All right. The outcomes are the individual albums sold. And so our sample space, which is that collection of outcomes, is going to be the entire set of albums sold in the past year. And the size of our sample space is going to be the 2,105 albums.

04:20 - 05:07
So let's talk about a probability. And suppose we define this event A as that we're going to randomly select a jazz album. If we recall our formula for probability, it is the total number of outcomes in event A divided by the total number of outcomes in the sample space. So if you want to, you can jot down some numbers for what you think this probability will be. All right. So the probability of randomly selecting a jazz album would be the total number of jazz albums sold divided by the total number of albums sold altogether, which is 431 over 2,105, which is approximately 0.205.

05:07 - 05:53
Now let's talk about what this means. The probability of an event in a repeatable situation can be interpreted as the relative frequency in which this event will occur in the long run. And so we said that our probability is about 0.205. So that means that if we were to randomly select many albums that were sold—if we were to randomly select many albums from this collection and we continue to replace and continue to select albums many, many times and perform even almost like a simulation or some type of empirical process—if we continue to do this thing a lot, a lot of times, the relative frequency that we would select a jazz album would be approximately 0.205.

05:53 - 07:01
All right. One way that we can organize information is by using a table that lists events along with their corresponding probabilities. And so in this case, we can take each genre and we can calculate each of those probabilities as well. All right. Pause real quick and add up all these probabilities. And let's talk about what they equal to. And what should they equal to? And we also want to answer the question about whether or not this is a valid probability distribution. All right. So if we were to add up each of these decimals, we would get 0.999. But in this case, that's okay. It's because of rounding. But it still is a valid probability distribution because if we add those fractions up, then sum of those probabilities is 1. So watch out for round-off error. But also understand that if we have a valid probability distribution, that means that the sum of the probabilities should be 1, which is equivalent to 100%.

07:01 - 08:16
Now let's talk about complements. The complement of an event is the event that A does not happen. So if we have an event A, then the complement is not A. And it's often referred to as not A. All right. So the complement of A is denoted by A' or A with a c, standing for the complement. And again, this also means not A. All right. And the probability of the complement of A is equal to 1 minus the probability that A occurs. All right, so jot this formula down because it will be important as we continue on. So what's the probability that an album selected is not jazz? One way we could do this is that we could look at this table and we could look at every single column that's not the jazz column, and we could take all those numbers and add them together. And that would be great. But we could also use our complement formula and recall that the probability that an album is not jazz is going to be 1 minus the probability that it is a jazz album. So in this case, it would be 1 minus that 0.205 that we calculated earlier, which would give us 0.795.

08:16 - 08:50
So what should we take away from today's video? The probability of an event involving equally likely outcomes is the fraction of the number of outcomes for a certain event divided by the total number of outcomes in the sample space. The probability of any event should be a number between 0 and 1, inclusive. And the probability of the complement of an event E is equal to 1 minus the probability of E. I hope that this video was helpful. Thanks for watching, and have a great day.