Sure! Here's the transcription for the video:

00:00 - 00:12 Hey, this is Joshua Soyo on behalf of College Board, and in this video, we're looking at topic 4.4: Mutually Exclusive Events, and we're going to explain why two events either are or are not mutually exclusive.

00:13 - 00:21 All right, so today we're going to talk about why some events are mutually exclusive and others are not.

00:22 - 00:57 If you recall on the 4.2 videos, we talked about vinyl albums that were sold at a particular record store. All right, and in this example, each column represented the number of albums of a different genre that were sold by a record store. And in this case, an album could only be classified by a single genre, so the genres themselves are mutually exclusive. All right, in this case, it would be impossible to purchase an album that was both classical and jazz at the same time. While that can happen in real life, it may not happen in this particular example because of how we classified these cells.

00:58 - 01:05 Mutually exclusive or disjoint events cannot occur at the same time.

01:06 - 01:47 All right, Venn diagrams can be useful to help represent probabilities in a visual form. Venn diagrams often use circles or ovals to represent events, and the portion where the graphs overlap, where those circles or ovals overlap, is the intersection of the two events and is represented by the notation A with this little symbol B, and that stands for A intersection B. All right, so when we draw a Venn diagram representing probabilities, we want to start off with some sort of rectangle or something to represent the entire sample space. We can use a circle for A, and then a circle for B, and in this particular case, the overlap would be the section that corresponds to A and B or the intersection of A and B.

01:48 - 02:05 Mutually exclusive events are events that cannot occur at the same time, so in the case of mutually exclusive events, there would be no intersection of the two events. So now this is an example where A and B are mutually exclusive. They have no common outcomes.

02:06 - 03:20 So let's look at, consider rolling a number cube with sides one through six and let's define event A as rolling an odd number, event B as rolling a prime number, or event C as rolling an even number. All right, and we want to calculate the probability of A and B and we want to calculate the probability of A and C. All right, so in the case of A and B, we're saying, okay, what's the chance that if we roll a number cube, we will get an outcome that is both odd and prime? And so remember the probability is found by counting the number of events that we're looking for and dividing that by the total number of outcomes. So in this case, between A and B, there are two outcomes that are the same, which is either rolling a three or rolling a five. All right, so the probability of A and B is two out of six, which is equivalent to one out of three. Likewise, the probability of A and C, what's the chance of rolling a single roll that is both odd and even? And so we understand that that is impossible, zero out of six. So in this case, because the probability of the intersection is zero, we can say that A and C are mutually exclusive. All right.

03:21 - 04:55 So let's look at an example, and this example is called Super Status! All right, so high school students from across the country were asked, answered the following two questions: if you had to choose a superpower, what would it be? And which of the following statuses would you prefer to describe you? And the results from 433 students are shown in this table here, and we're going to use this to calculate some probabilities. And this two-way table helps us to find desired frequencies by either looking at row totals, column totals, or table totals. So example: what is the probability that a randomly selected student chose to be happy? All right, so according to how we find probabilities, we first of all want to see how many students we had who were happy, all right, and this is from out of all of our students, 433. So the probability that a randomly selected student chose to be happy would be 265 out of 433, which is approximately 0.612. What is the probability that a randomly selected student chose to be happy and freeze time? All right, so in this two-way table, we can look for the intersection of the two events: happy and freeze time, and we see it's 63, and this is 63 out of all of our students, which is 433, which is 0.145. And again, this is the joint probability because it is the intersection of the events happy and freeze time.

04:56 - 05:25 Next example: what's the probability that a selected student chose to be famous and telepathic? All right, famous and telepathic, and so if we look at the intersection of being famous and choosing to have telepathy, we see that there is a zero in that place, so zero out of 433, which is equal to zero. And so because no students chose to be both famous and telepathic, the two events are mutually exclusive.

05:26 - 05:46 So what should we take away? The joint probability is the probability of the intersection of two events, and two events are mutually exclusive or disjoint if they cannot occur at the same time. And if two events are mutually exclusive, then the probability of their intersection is zero.

05:47 - 05:54 I hope this video was helpful. Thanks for watching and have a great day.