00:00
This is the concept of a randomization distribution for an experiment using simulation.

00:07
What will we learn? What is a randomization distribution? What can a randomization distribution tell us about the results of an experiment?

00:18
Let's look at an example. Newborns often sleep more during the day than at night. In a double-blind experiment to increase nighttime sleep for newborns, 16 nursing mothers were randomly assigned to take either Melatonin or a Placebo.

00:36
During the night, newborns wake up to be fed and then, hopefully, return to sleep. The total number of hours each newborn slept for the night was recorded.

00:48
I can find the mean for the melatonin group, and I can find the mean for the placebo group. We can also find the difference in the sample means, which in this case is 1.69 hours. Pretty significant when you're sleep-deprived.

01:09
To investigate whether the difference in sleep time could reasonably be due to chance, we will simulate a randomization distribution. What that is, is a collection of statistics generated by repeatedly reassigning the response values to the treatment groups.

01:28
If I take all of the values out of their treatment groups and randomly assign eight of the values to the melatonin group, the remaining values will be in the placebo group.

01:43
Once I get them separated—with total disregard for where they really came from—I can calculate the mean of each treatment group and find the difference in those means.

01:58
And then do it again. Randomly assign another eight values to the melatonin group, and the remaining values to the placebo group. Find the mean of each group, and then the difference of the means. Here, it looks like the placebo group got more sleep on average than the melatonin group.

02:22
If I keep doing this repeatedly for all possible combinations of eight to the melatonin group and eight to the placebo group, find the means, take their differences, and graph all those differences, I have a simulated difference in means.

02:42
Note that each point—for instance, this point right here—represents eight babies sleeping in the melatonin group, the times for eight babies sleeping in the placebo group, finding the mean of each, and subtracting them. This is what the distribution looks like for 50 trials.

03:06
There's actually over 12,000 points if we did all possible points, but we don't have time in this video. If we do a thousand trials, the distribution looks like this and starts to take on a shape that we begin to recognize.

03:22
Looking at these individual points, I could calculate where our actual experimental data falls. So, the actual experiment resulted in a difference of 1.69 hours of sleep, which is about here.

03:41
And using this simulated data, we could find the probability that we would get at least 1.69 or greater hours of sleep by chance alone. Remember, all of these points were with total disregard of what actually happened, so they were found using chance alone to split the values into the two treatment groups.

04:09
It looks like 1.69 or greater falls in the area of this rectangle. That's 12 points out of our thousand, which gives us a probability of 0.012.

04:23
So, the probability the difference in the mean hours of sleep for the melatonin group minus the mean hours of sleep in the placebo group being greater than 1.69, given random allocation of values to the treatment groups, is 0.012, which is a small probability. Which means it probably didn't happen by chance.

04:50
So, it is unlikely that the observed difference happened by chance alone. This experiment provides fairly convincing evidence that melatonin given to nursing mothers like these increases the mean number of hours that newborns sleep.

05:07
What should we take away? A randomization distribution for a randomized experiment is a collection of statistics generated by simulation to reallocate response values to the treatment groups.

05:22
A randomization distribution can be used to assess the likelihood of an observed outcome happening by chance alone.

05:31
Thank you.